Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
Carroll, Lewis
Published: 1897
Categorie(s): Fiction, Fantasy
Source: Wikisource
1
About Carroll:
Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (January 27, 1832 ? January 14,
1898), better known by the pen name Lewis Carroll, was an
English author, mathematician, logician, Anglican clergyman,
and photographer. His most famous writings are Alice's Adventures
in Wonderland and its sequel Through the Looking-Glass
as well as the poems "The Hunting of the Snark" and "Jabberwocky",
all considered to be within the genre of literary nonsense.
His facility at word play, logic, and fantasy has delighted
audiences ranging from children to the literary elite. But beyond
this, his work has become embedded deeply in modern culture.
He has directly influenced many artists. There are societies
dedicated to the enjoyment and promotion of his works and
the investigation of his life in many parts of the world including
North America, Japan, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand.
His biography has recently come under much question as a result
of what some call the "Carroll Myth." Source: Wikipedia
Also available on Feedbooks for Carroll:
? Through the Looking Glass (And What Alice Found There)
(1871)
? Sylvie and Bruno (1889)
Note: This book is brought to you by Feedbooks
http://www.feedbooks.com
Strictly for personal use, do not use this file for commercial
purposes.
2
Chapter 1
Down the Rabbit Hole
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on
the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures
or conversations in it, Ågand what is the use of a book,Åh
thought Alice, Ågwithout pictures or conversation?Åh
So she was considering, in her own mind (as well as she
could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid),
whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth
the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly
a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.
There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself ÅgOh dear! Oh dear! I shall be too late!Åh (when she
thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to
have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its
waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice
started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had
never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a
watch to take out of it, and, burning with curiosity, she ran
across the field after it, and was just in time to see it pop down
a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.
In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering
how in the world she was to get out again.
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not
a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down what seemed to be a very deep well.
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her, and to
3
wonder what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too
dark to see anything: then she looked at the sides of the well,
and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and bookshelves:
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon
pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
passed: it was labelled ÅgORANGE MARMALADE,Åh but to her
great disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the
jar, for fear of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put
it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.
ÅgWell!Åh thought Alice to herself. ÅgAfter such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down-stairs! How brave theyÅfll
all think me at home! Why, I wouldnÅft say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!Åh (Which was very likely
true.)
Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? ÅgI
wonder how many miles IÅfve fallen by this time?Åh she said
aloud. ÅgI must be getting somewhere near the centre of the
earth. Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I
think?Åh (for, you see, Alice had learnt several things of this
sort in her lessons in the school-room, and though this was not
a very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as
there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to
say it over) Åg?yes, thatÅfs about the right distance?but then I
wonder what Latitude or Longitude IÅfve got to?Åh (Alice had no
idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they
were nice grand words to say.)
Presently she began again. ÅgI wonder if I shall fall right
through the earth! How funny itÅfll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downwards! The antipathies,
I think?Åh (she was rather glad there was no one listening, this
time, as it didnÅft sound at all the right word) Åg?but I shall have
to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please,
MaÅfam, is this New Zealand? Or Australia?Åh (and she tried to
curtsey as she spoke?fancy, curtseying as youÅfre falling
through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) ÅgAnd what
an ignorant little girl sheÅfll think me for asking! No, itÅfll never
do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.Åh
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice
soon began talking again. ÅgDinahÅfll miss me very much to-
4
night, I should think!Åh (Dinah was the cat.) ÅgI hope theyÅfll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear! I wish
you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, IÅfm
afraid, but you might catch a bat, and thatÅfs very like a mouse,
you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?Åh And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
dreamy sort of way, ÅgDo cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?Åh and
sometimes ÅgDo bats eat cats?Åh, for, you see, as she couldnÅft answer
either question, it didnÅft much matter which way she put
it. She felt that she was dozing off, and had just begun to
dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and was
saying to her, very earnestly, ÅgNow, Dinah, tell me the truth:
did you ever eat a bat?Åh when suddenly, thump! thump! down
she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was
over.
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in
a moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead: before
her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still
in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, ÅgOh my ears and whiskers, how late
itÅfs getting!Åh She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found herself
in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.
Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made
of solid glass: there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and AliceÅfs first thought was that this might belong to one of
the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large,
or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any
of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a
low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a
little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little golden
key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!
Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage,
not much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and
5
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever
saw. How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander
about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains,
but she could not even get her head though the doorway;
Ågand even if my head would go through,Åh thought poor Alice,
Ågit would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I
wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.Åh For, you see, so many out-of-the-way
things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that
very few things indeed were really impossible.
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so
she went back to the table, half hoping she might find another
key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up
like telescopes: this time she found a little bottle on it (Ågwhich
certainly was not here before,Åh said Alice), and tied round the
neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words ÅgDRINK
MEÅh beautifully printed on it in large letters.
It was all very well to say ÅgDrink me,Åh but the wise little Alice
was not going to do that in a hurry. ÅgNo, IÅfll look first,Åh she
said, Ågand see whether itÅfs marked ÅepoisonÅf or notÅh; for she had
read several nice little stories about children who had got
burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts, and other unpleasant
things, all because they would not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if your hold it too long; and that, if you cut your
finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
Ågpoison,Åh it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.
However, this bottle was not marked Ågpoison,Åh so Alice ventured
to taste it, and, finding it very nice (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey,
toffy, and hot buttered toast), she very soon finished it off.
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
ÅgWhat a curious feeling!Åh said Alice. ÅgI must be shutting up
like a telescope!Åh
And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the
6
right size for going though the little door into that lovely
garden. First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if
she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous
about this; Ågfor it might end, you know,Åh said Alice to herself,
Ågin my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I
should be like then?Åh And she tried to fancy what the flame of a
candle looks like after the candle is blown out, for she could
not remember ever having seen such a thing.
After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice!
when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the little
golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she
found she could not possibly reach it: she could see it quite
plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up
one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when
she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat
down and cried.
ÅgCome, thereÅfs no use in crying like that!Åh said Alice to herself
rather sharply. ÅgI advise you to leave off this minute!Åh She
generally gave herself very good advice (though she very seldom
followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself
in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for
this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two
people. ÅgBut itÅfs no use now,Åh thought poor Alice, Ågto pretend
to be two people! Why, there's hardly enough of me left to
make one respectable person!Åh
Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words ÅgEAT MEÅh were beautifully marked in currants.
ÅgWell, IÅfll eat it,Åh said Alice, Ågand if it makes me grow
larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I
can creep under the door: so either way IÅfll get into the
garden, and I donÅft care which happens!Åh
She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself ÅgWhich way?
Which way?Åh, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel
which way it was growing; and she was quite surprised to find
that she remained the same size. To be sure, this is what generally
happens when one eats cake; but Alice had got so much
7
into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to
happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in
the common way.
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
8
Chapter 2
The Pool of Tears
ÅgCuriouser and curiouser!Åh cried Alice (she was so much surprised,
that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English). ÅgNow IÅfm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was! Good-bye, feet!Åh (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting
so far off). ÅgOh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? IÅfm sure I shaÅfnÅft
be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you: you must manage the best way you can?but I must
be kind to them,Åh thought Alice, Ågor perhaps they woÅfnÅft walk
the way I want to go! Let me see. IÅfll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.Åh
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage
it. ÅgThey must go by the carrier,Åh she thought; Ågand how funny
itÅfll seem, sending presents to oneÅfs own feet! And how odd the
directions will look!
AliceÅfs Right Foot, Esq.
? Hearthrug,
? near the Fender,
? (with AliceÅfs love).
Oh dear, what nonsense IÅfm talking!Åh
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact
she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up
the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on
one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to
get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and
began to cry again.
ÅgYou ought to be ashamed of yourself,Åh said Alice, Åga great
girl like you,Åh (she might well say this), Ågto go on crying in this
9
way! Stop this moment, I tell you!Åh But she went on all the
same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all
around her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance,
and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid-gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other:
he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself,
as he came, ÅgOh! The Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! WoÅfnÅft
she be savage if IÅfve kept her waiting!Åh Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one: so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, ÅgIf you please,
Sir??Åh The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kidgloves
and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as
hard as he could go.
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking.
ÅgDear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday
things went on just as usual. I wonder if IÅfve been changed in
the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this
morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different.
But if IÅfm not the same, the next question is, ÅeWho in the
world am I?Åf Ah, thatÅfs the great puzzle!Åh And she began thinking
over all the children she knew that were of the same age as
herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
ÅgI'm sure IÅfm not Ada,Åh she said, Ågfor her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesnÅft go in ringlets at all; and IÅfm
sure I caÅfnÅft be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh, she knows such a very little! Besides, sheÅfs she, and IÅfm I,
and?oh dear, how puzzling it all is! IÅfll try if I know all the
things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is?oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the
Multiplication-Table doesnÅft signify: letÅfs try Geography. London
is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and
Rome?no, thatÅfs all wrong, IÅfm certain! I must have been
changed for Mabel! IÅfll try and say ÅeHow doth the little?Åf,Åh and
she crossed her hands on her lap, as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
10
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to
do:?
ÅgHow doth the little crocodile
? Improve his shining tail,
And pour the waters of the Nile
? On every golden scale!
ÅgHow cheerfully he seems to grin,
? How neatly spreads his claws,
And welcome little fishes in,
? With gently smiling jaws!Åh
ÅgIÅfm sure those are not the right words,Åh said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, ÅgI must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh, ever so
many lessons to learn! No, IÅfve made up my mind about it: if
IÅfm Mabel, IÅfll stay down here! ItÅfll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying ÅeCome up again, dear!Åf I shall only look
up and say ÅeWho am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like
being that person, IÅfll come up: if not, IÅfll stay down here till
IÅfm somebody elseÅf?but, oh dear!Åh cried Alice, with a sudden
burst of tears, ÅgI do wish they would put their heads down! I
am so very tired of being all alone here!Åh
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised
to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white
kid-gloves while she was talking. ÅgHow can I have done that?Åh
she thought. ÅgI must be growing small again.Åh She got up and
went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as
nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found out that
the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped
it hastily, just in time to save herself from shrinking away
altogether.
ÅgThat was a narrow escape!Åh said Alice, a good deal
frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself
still in existence. ÅgAnd now for the garden!Åh And she ran with
all speed back to the little door; but, alas! the little door was
shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass
table as before, Ågand things are worse than ever,Åh thought the
poor child, Ågfor I never was so small as this before, never! And
I declare itÅfs too bad, that it is!Åh
11
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment,
splash! she was up to her chin in salt-water. Her first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, Ågand in that
case I can go back by railway,Åh she said to herself. (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion that, wherever you go to on the English coast,
you find a number of bathing-machines in the sea, some children
digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of
lodging-houses, and behind them a railway station.) However,
she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she
had wept when she was nine feet high.
ÅgI wish I hadnÅft cried so much!Åh said Alice, as she swam
about, trying to find her way out. ÅgI shall be punished for it
now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will
be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer today.Åh
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made
out that it was only a mouse, that had slipped in like herself.
ÅgWould it be of any use, now,Åh thought Alice, Ågto speak to
this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I
should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, thereÅfs no harm
in trying.Åh So she began: ÅgO Mouse, do you know the way out
of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O
Mouse!Åh (Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking
to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered
having seen, in her brotherÅfs Latin Grammar, ÅgA
mouse?of a mouse?to a mouse?a mouse?O mouse!Åh The
Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to
wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
ÅgPerhaps it doesnÅft understand English,Åh thought Alice. ÅgI
daresay itÅfs a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.Åh
(For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no
very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.) So she
began again: ÅgOu est ma chatte?Åh, which was the first sentence
in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a sudden leap out
of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. ÅgOh, I
12
beg your pardon!Åh cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
the poor animalÅfs feelings. ÅgI quite forgot you didn't like cats.Åh
ÅgNot like cats!Åh cried the Mouse in a shrill, passionate voice.
ÅgWould you like cats, if you were me?Åh
ÅgWell, perhaps not,Åh said Alice in a soothing tone: ÅgdonÅft be
angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah. I
think youÅfd take a fancy to cats, if you could only see her. She
is such a dear quiet thing,Åh Alice went on, half to herself, as
she swam lazily about in the pool, Ågand she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face?and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse?and sheÅfs such a capital
one for catching mice??oh, I beg your pardon!Åh cried Alice
again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she
felt certain it must be really offended. ÅgWe woÅfnÅft talk about
her any more if youÅfd rather not.Åh
ÅgWe indeed!Åh cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to
the end of his tail. ÅgAs if I would talk on such a subject! Our
family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! DonÅft let
me hear the name again!Åh
ÅgI woÅfnÅft indeed!Åh said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation. ÅgAre you?are you fond?of?of dogs?Åh
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly: ÅgThere is
such a nice little dog, near our house, I should like to show
you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long
curly brown hair! And itÅfll fetch things when you throw them,
and itÅfll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things?I
caÅfnÅft remember half of them?and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, itÅfs worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and?oh dear!Åh cried Alice in a sorrowful
tone. ÅgIÅfm afraid IÅfve offended it again!Åh For the Mouse
was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making
quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
So she called softly after it, ÅgMouse dear! Do come back
again, and we woÅfnÅft talk about cats, or dogs either, if you
donÅft like them!Åh When the Mouse heard this, it turned round
and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with passion,
Alice thought), and it said, in a low trembling voice, ÅgLet
us get to the shore, and then IÅfll tell you my history, and youÅfll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.Åh
13
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite
crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:
there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several
other curious creatures. Alice led the way, and the whole
party swam to the shore.
14
Chapter 3
A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank?the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.
The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it
seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly
with them, as if she had known them all her life. Indeed, she
had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned
sulky, and would only say, ÅgIÅfm older than you, and must know
better.Åh And this Alice would not allow, without knowing how
old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age,
there was no more to be said.
At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority
among them, called out, ÅgSit down, all of you, and listen to me!
IÅfll soon make you dry enough!Åh They all sat down at once, in a
large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
ÅgAhem!Åh said the Mouse with an important air. ÅgAre you all
ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you
please! ÅeWilliam the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by
the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted
leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation
and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and
Northumbria??ÅfÅh
ÅgUgh!Åh said the Lory, with a shiver.
ÅgI beg your pardon!Åh said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely.
ÅgDid you speak?Åh
ÅgNot I!Åh said the Lory, hastily.
15
ÅgI thought you did,Åh said the Mouse. ÅgI proceed. ÅeEdwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for
him; and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury,
found it advisable??ÅfÅh
ÅgFound what?Åh said the Duck.
ÅgFound it,Åh the Mouse replied rather crossly: Ågof course you
know what ÅeitÅf means.Åh
ÅgI know what ÅeitÅf means well enough, when I find a thing,Åh
said the Duck: ÅgitÅfs generally a frog, or a worm. The question
is, what did the archbishop find?Åh
The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went
on, ÅgÅe?found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet
William and offer him the crown. William's conduct at first was
moderate. But the insolence of his Normans??Åf How are you
getting on now, my dear?Åh it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.
ÅgAs wet as ever,Åh said Alice in a melancholy tone: Ågit doesnÅft
seem to dry me at all.Åh
ÅgIn that case,Åh said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, ÅgI
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of
more energetic remedies??Åh
ÅgSpeak English!Åh said the Eaglet. ÅgI don't know the meaning
of half those long words, and, whatÅfs more, I donÅft believe you
do either!Åh And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
ÅgWhat I was going to say,Åh said the Dodo in an offended tone,
Ågwas, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucusrace.Åh
ÅgWhat is a Caucus-race?Åh said Alice; not that she much
wanted to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that
somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to
say anything.
ÅgWhy,Åh said the Dodo, Ågthe best way to explain it is to do it.Åh
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winterday,
I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (Ågthe exact
shape doesnÅft matter,Åh it said,) and then all the party were
placed along the course, here and there. There was no ÅgOne,
two, three, and away!Åh, but they began running when they
liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to
16
know when the race was over. However, when they had been
running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo
suddenly called out ÅgThe race is over!Åh, and they all crowded
round it, panting, and asking, ÅgBut who has won?Åh
This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal
of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed
upon its forehead (the position in which you usually see
Shakespeare, in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in
silence. At last the Dodo said, ÅgEverybody has won, and all
must have prizes.Åh
ÅgBut who is to give the prizes?Åh quite a chorus of voices
asked.
ÅgWhy, she, of course,Åh said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out, in a confused way, ÅgPrizes! Prizes!Åh
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece, all round.
ÅgBut she must have a prize herself, you know,Åh said the
Mouse.
ÅgOf course,Åh the Dodo replied very gravely. ÅgWhat else have
you got in your pocket?Åh he went on, turning to Alice.
ÅgOnly a thimble,Åh said Alice sadly.
ÅgHand it over here,Åh said the Dodo.
Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying ÅgWe beg your acceptance
of this elegant thimbleÅh; and, when it had finished this
short speech, they all cheered.
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all
looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she
could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took
the thimble, looking as solemn as she could.
The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could
not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted
on the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat
down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them
something more.
17
ÅgYou promised to tell me your history, you know,Åh said Alice,
Ågand why it is you hate?C and D,Åh she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.
ÅgMine is a long and a sad tale!Åh said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.
ÅgIt is a long tail, certainly,Åh said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the MouseÅfs tail; Ågbut why do you call it sad?Åh And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:?
ÅgFury said to a
mouse, That he
met in the
house,
ÅeLet us
both go to
law: I will
prosecute
you.?Come,
IÅfll take no
denial: We
must have a
trial; For
really this
morning IÅfve
nothing
to do.Åf
Said the
mouse to the
cur, ÅeSuch
a trial,
dear sir,
With
no jury
or judge,
would be
wasting
our
breath.Åf
ÅeIÅfll be
judge, IÅfll
18
be jury,Åf
Said
cunning
old Fury:
ÅeIÅfll
try the
whole
cause,
and
condemn
you
to
deathÅf.Åh
ÅgYou are not attending!Åh said the Mouse to Alice, severely.
ÅgWhat are you thinking of?Åh
ÅgI beg your pardon,Åh said Alice very humbly: Ågyou had got to
the fifth bend, I think?Åh
ÅgI had not!Åh cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
ÅgA knot!Åh said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her. ÅgOh, do let me help to undo it!Åh
ÅgI shall do nothing of the sort,Åh said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away. ÅgYou insult me by talking such nonsense!Åh
ÅgI didnÅft mean it!Åh pleaded poor Alice. ÅgBut youÅfre so easily
offended, you know!Åh
The Mouse only growled in reply.
ÅgPlease come back, and finish your story!Åh Alice called after
it. And the others all joined in chorus ÅgYes, please do!Åh But the
Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.
ÅgWhat a pity it wouldnÅft stay!Åh sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight. And an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter ÅgAh, my dear! Let this be a lesson to
you never to lose your temper!Åh ÅgHold your tongue, Ma!Åh said
the young Crab, a little snappishly. ÅgYouÅfre enough to try the
patience of an oyster!Åh
ÅgI wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!Åh said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular. ÅgSheÅfd soon fetch it back!Åh
ÅgAnd who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?Åh
said the Lory.
19
Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet: ÅgDinahÅfs our cat. And sheÅfs such a capital one for
catching mice, you caÅfnÅft think! And oh, I wish you could see
her after the birds! Why, sheÅfll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!Åh
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking ÅgI really must be
getting home: the night-air doesnÅft suit my throat!Åh And a
Canary called out in a trembling voice, to its children, ÅgCome
away, my dears! ItÅfs high time you were all in bed!Åh On various
pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.
ÅgI wish I hadnÅft mentioned Dinah!Åh she said to herself in a
melancholy tone. ÅgNobody seems to like her, down here, and
IÅfm sure she's the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!Åh And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited. In
a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming
back to finish his story.
20
Chapter 4
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and
she heard it muttering to itself, ÅgThe Duchess! The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! SheÅfll get me executed,
as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where can I have
dropped them, I wonder?Åh Alice guessed in a moment that it
was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid-gloves, and
she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but
they were nowhere to be seen?everything seemed to have
changed since her swim in the pool; and the great hall, with
the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely.
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting
about, and called out to her, in an angry tone, ÅgWhy, Mary Ann,
what are you doing out here? Run home this moment, and
fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!Åh And Alice was
so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it
pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.
ÅgHe took me for his housemaid,Åh she said to herself as she
ran. ÅgHow surprised heÅfll be when he finds out who I am! But
I'd better take him his fan and gloves?that is, if I can find
them.Åh As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on
the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ÅgW.
RABBITÅh engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and
hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real
Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found
the fan and gloves.
ÅgHow queer it seems,Åh Alice said to herself, Ågto be going messages
for a rabbit! I suppose DinahÅfll be sending me on messages
next!Åh And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen: ÅgÅeMiss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready
21
for your walk!Åf ÅeComing in a minute, nurse! But I've got to
watch this mouse-hole till Dinah comes back, and see that the
mouse doesnÅft get out.Åf Only I donÅft think,Åh Alice went on, Ågthat
theyÅfd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people
about like that!Åh
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room
with a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan
and two or three pairs of tiny white kid-gloves: she took up the
fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the
room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the
looking-glass. There was no label this time with the words
ÅgDRINK ME,Åh but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to
her lips. ÅgI know something interesting is sure to happen,Åh she
said to herself, Ågwhenever I eat or drink anything: so IÅfll just
see what this bottle does. I do hope itÅfll make me grow large
again, for really IÅfm quite tired of being such a tiny little
thing!Åh
It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before
she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken. She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
ÅgThatÅfs quite enough?I hope I shan't grow any more?As it is, I
can't get out at the door?I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!Åh
Alas! It was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another
minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and
the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on growing,
and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window,
and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself ÅgNow I can do
no more, whatever happens. What will become of me?Åh
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.
ÅgIt was much pleasanter at home,Åh thought poor Alice, Ågwhen
one wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being
ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone
down that rabbit-hole?and yet?and yet?itÅfs rather curious,
22
you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what can have
happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that
kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle
of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there
ought! And when I grow up, IÅfll write one?but IÅfm grown up
now,Åh she added in a sorrowful tone: Ågat least thereÅfs no room
to grow up any more here.Åh
ÅgBut then,Åh thought Alice, Ågshall I never get any older than I
am now? ThatÅfll be a comfort, one way?never to be an old woman?
but then?always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I
shouldn't like that!Åh
ÅgOh, you foolish Alice!Åh she answered herself. ÅgHow can you
learn lessons in here? Why, thereÅfs hardly room for you, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!Åh
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a
few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
ÅgMary Ann! Mary Ann!Åh said the voice. ÅgFetch me my gloves
this moment!Åh Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs.
Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she
trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was
now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.
Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open
it; but, as the door opened inwards, and AliceÅfs elbow was
pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure. Alice
heard it say to itself ÅgThen IÅfll go round and get in at the
window.Åh
ÅgThat you woÅfnÅft!Åh thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air. She
did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a
fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded
that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or
something of the sort.
Next came an angry voice?the RabbitÅfs?ÅgPat! Pat! Where
are you?Åh And then a voice she had never heard before, ÅgSure
then IÅfm here! Digging for apples, yer honour!Åh
ÅgDigging for apples, indeed!Åh said the Rabbit angrily. ÅgHere!
Come and help me out of this!Åh (Sounds of more broken glass.)
23
ÅgNow tell me, Pat, whatÅfs that in the window?Åh
ÅgSure, itÅfs an arm, yer honour!Åh (He pronounced it Ågarrum.Åh)
ÅgAn arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills
the whole window!Åh
ÅgSure, it does, yer honour: but itÅfs an arm for all that.Åh
ÅgWell, itÅfs got no business there, at any rate: go and take it
away!Åh
There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, ÅgSure, I donÅft like it, yer honour,
at all, at all!Åh ÅgDo as I tell you, you coward!Åh, and at last
she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the
air. This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of
broken glass. ÅgWhat a number of cucumber-frames there must
be!Åh thought Alice. ÅgI wonder what theyÅfll do next! As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! IÅfm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!Åh
She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at
last came a rumbling of little cart-wheels, and the sound of a
good many voices all talking together: she made out the words:
ÅgWhereÅfs the other ladder??Why, I hadnÅft to bring but one.
Bill's got the other?Bill! Fetch it here, lad!?Here, put Åfem up
at this corner?No, tie Åfem together first?they don't reach half
high enough yet?Oh! theyÅfll do well enough. DonÅft be particular?
Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope?Will the roof
bear??Mind that loose slate?Oh, itÅfs coming down! Heads below!Åh
(a loud crash)?ÅgNow, who did that??It was Bill, I
fancy?WhoÅfs to go down the chimney??Nay, I shanÅft! You do
it!?That I woÅfnÅft, then!?BillÅfs got to go down?Here, Bill! The
master says youÅfve got to go down the chimney!Åh
ÅgOh! So BillÅfs got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself. ÅgWhy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I
wouldn't be in BillÅfs place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow,
to be sure; but I think I can kick a little!Åh
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldnÅft guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney
close above her: then, saying to herself ÅgThis is BillÅh, she gave
one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.
The first thing she heard was a general chorus of ÅgThere
goes Bill!Åh then the RabbitÅfs voice alone?ÅgCatch him, you by
24
the hedge!Åh then silence, and then another confusion of
voices?ÅgHold up his head?Brandy now?DonÅft choke
him?How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all
about it!Åh
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice (ÅgThat's Bill,Åh
thought Alice), ÅgWell, I hardly know?No more, thank ye; IÅfm
better now?but IÅfm a deal too flustered to tell you?all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!Åh
ÅgSo you did, old fellow!Åh said the others.
ÅgWe must burn the house down!Åh said the RabbitÅfs voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, ÅgIf you do. IÅfll set Dinah
at you!Åh
There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself,
ÅgI wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense,
theyÅfd take the roof off.Åh After a minute or two, they began
moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, ÅgA barrowful
will do, to begin with.Åh
ÅgA barrowful of what?Åh thought Alice. But she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling
in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
ÅgIÅfll put a stop to this,Åh she said to herself, and shouted out,
ÅgYou'd better not do that again!Åh which produced another dead
silence.
Alice noticed, with some surprise, that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head. ÅgIf I eat one of these cakes,Åh she
thought, ÅgitÅfs sure to make some change in my size; and, as it
caÅfnÅft possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.Åh
So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but
she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in
a thick wood.
25
ÅgThe first thing IÅfve got to do,Åh said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, Ågis to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.Åh
It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged: the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and, while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large
round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch
her. ÅgPoor little thing!Åh said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she
tried hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all
the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case
it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.
Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy
jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it;
then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from
being run over; and the moment she appeared on the other
side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled
head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it: then Alice, thinking
it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse,
and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran
round the thistle again: then the puppy began a series of short
charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each
time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while,
till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue
hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape:
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and
out of breath, and till the puppyÅfs bark sounded quite faint in
the distance.
ÅgAnd yet what a dear little puppy it was!Åh said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves. ÅgI should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if?if IÅfd only been the right size to do it! Oh dear!
IÅfd nearly forgotten that IÅfve got to grow up again! Let me
26
see?how is it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink
something or other; but the great question is, ÅeWhat?ÅfÅh
The great question certainly was ÅgWhat?Åh. Alice looked all
round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did
not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink
under the circumstances. There was a large mushroom growing
near her, about the same height as herself; and, when she
had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred
to her that she might as well look and see what was on
the top of it.
She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge
of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a
large blue caterpillar, that was sitting on the top, with its arms
folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest
notice of her or of anything else.
27
Chapter 5
Advice from a Caterpillar
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth,
and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
ÅgWho are you?Åh said the Caterpillar.
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.
Alice replied, rather shyly, ÅgI?I hardly know, Sir, just at
present?at least I know who I was when I got up this morning,
but I think I must have been changed several times since
then.Åh
ÅgWhat do you mean by that?" said the Caterpillar, sternly.
ÅgExplain yourself!Åh
ÅgI caÅfnÅft explain myself, IÅfm afraid, Sir,Åh said Alice, Ågbecause
IÅfm not myself, you see.Åh
ÅgI donÅft see,Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgIÅfm afraid I caÅfnÅft put it more clearly,Åh Alice replied, very politely,
Ågfor I caÅfnÅft understand it myself, to begin with; and being
so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.Åh
ÅgIt isnÅft,Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgWell, perhaps you havenÅft found it so yet,Åh said Alice; Ågbut
when you have to turn into a chrysalis?you will some day, you
know?and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, woÅfnÅft you?Åh
ÅgNot a bit,Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgWell, perhaps your feelings may be different,Åh said Alice:
Ågall I know is, it would feel very queer to me.Åh
ÅgYou!Åh said the Caterpillar contemptuously. ÅgWho are you?Åh
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making
such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, ÅgI think you ought to tell me who you are, first.Åh
28
ÅgWhy?Åh said the Caterpillar.
Here was another puzzling question; and, as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be
in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.
ÅgCome back!Åh the Caterpillar called after her. ÅgIÅfve
something important to say!Åh
This sounded promising, certainly. Alice turned and came
back again.
ÅgKeep your temper,Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgIs that all?Åh said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well
as she could.
ÅgNo,Åh said the Caterpillar.
Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing. For some minutes it puffed away without speaking;
but at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its
mouth again, and said, ÅgSo you think youÅfre changed, do you?Åh
ÅgIÅfm afraid I am, sir,Åh said Alice. ÅgI caÅfnÅft remember things as
I used?and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes
together!Åh
ÅgCaÅfnÅft remember what things?Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgWell, IÅfve tried to say ÅeHow doth the little busy bee,Åf but it
all came different!Åh Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
ÅgRepeat, ÅeYou are old, Father William,Åf Åh said the Caterpillar.
Alice folded her hands, and began:?
ÅgYou are old, Father William,Åh the young man said,
? ÅgAnd your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head?
? Do you think, at your age, it is right?Åh
ÅgIn my youth,Åh Father William replied to his son,
? ÅgI feared it might injure the brain;
But, now that IÅfm perfectly sure I have none,
? Why, I do it again and again.Åh
ÅgYou are old,Åh said the youth, Ågas I mentioned before,
? And have grown most uncommonly fat;
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door?
? Pray, what is the reason of that?Åh
ÅgIn my youth,Åh said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
? ÅgI kept all my limbs very supple
By the use of this ointment?one shilling the box?
29
? Allow me to sell you a couple?Åh
ÅgYou are old,Åh said the youth, Ågand your jaws are too weak
? For anything tougher than suet;
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak?
? Pray, how did you manage to do it?Åh
ÅgIn my youth,Åh said his father, ÅgI took to the law,
? And argued each case with my wife;
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw
? Has lasted the rest of my life.Åh
ÅgYou are old,Åh said the youth, Ågone would hardly suppose
? That your eye was as steady as ever;
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose?
? What made you so awfully clever?Åh
ÅgI have answered three questions, and that is enough,Åh
? Said his father, ÅgDonÅft give yourself airs!
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
? Be off, or IÅfll kick you down-stairs!Åh
ÅgThat is not said right,Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgNot quite right, IÅfm afraid,Åh said Alice, timidly: Ågsome of the
words have got altered.Åh
ÅgIt is wrong from beginning to end,Åh said the Caterpillar, decidedly;
and there was silence for some minutes.
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
ÅgWhat size do you want to be?Åh it asked.
ÅgOh, IÅfm not particular as to size,Åh Alice hastily replied; Ågonly
one doesn't like changing so often, you know.Åh
ÅgI donÅft know,Åh said the Caterpillar.
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted
in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
ÅgAre you content now?Åh said the Caterpillar.
ÅgWell, I should like to be a little larger, Sir, if you wouldn't
mind,Åh said Alice: Ågthree inches is such a wretched height to
be.Åh
ÅgIt is a very good height indeed!Åh said the Caterpillar angrily,
rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches
high).
ÅgBut IÅfm not used to it!Åh pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought to herself ÅgI wish the creatures wouldnÅft be so
easily offended!Åh
30
ÅgYouÅfll get used to it in time,Åh said the Caterpillar; and it put
the hookah into its mouth, and began smoking again.
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking, as it went, ÅgOne side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.Åh
ÅgOne side of what? The other side of what?Åh thought Alice to
herself.
ÅgOf the mushroom,Åh said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and,
as it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as
they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.
ÅgAnd now which is which?Åh she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect. The next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her
foot!
She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change,
but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was
shrinking rapidly: so she set to work at once to eat some of the
other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that
there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last,
and managed to swallow a morsel of the left-hand bit.
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
ÅgCome, my headÅfs free at last!Åh said Alice in a tone of delight,
which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found
that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see,
when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.
ÅgWhat can all that green stuff be?Åh said Alice. ÅgAnd where
have my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
caÅfnÅft see you?Åh She was moving them about as she spoke, but
31
no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.
As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to
her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any
direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it
down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among
the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the
trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss
made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into
her face, and was beating her violently with its wings.
ÅgSerpent!Åh screamed the Pigeon.
ÅgIÅfm not a serpent!Åh said Alice indignantly. ÅgLet me alone!Åh
ÅgSerpent, I say again!Åh repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, ÅgIÅfve tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!Åh
ÅgI havenÅft the least idea what you're talking about,Åh said
Alice.
ÅgIÅfve tried the roots of trees, and IÅfve tried banks, and IÅfve
tried hedges,Åh the Pigeon went on, without attending to her;
Ågbut those serpents! ThereÅfs no pleasing them!Åh
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was
no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
ÅgAs if it wasnÅft trouble enough hatching the eggs,Åh said the
Pigeon; Ågbut I must be on the look-out for serpents, night and
day! Why, I havenÅft had a wink of sleep these three weeks!Åh
ÅgIÅfm very sorry you've been annoyed,Åh said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.
ÅgAnd just as IÅfd taken the highest tree in the wood,Åh continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, Ågand just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!Åh
ÅgBut IÅfm not a serpent, I tell you!Åh said Alice. ÅgIÅfm a??IÅfm
a??Åh
ÅgWell! What are you?Åh said the Pigeon. ÅgI can see youÅfre trying
to invent something!Åh
ÅgI?IÅfm a little girl,Åh said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through, that
day.
32
ÅgA likely story indeed!Åh said the Pigeon, in a tone of the deepest
contempt. ÅgI've seen a good many little girls in my time, but
never one with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent;
and there's no use denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me
next that you never tasted an egg!Åh
ÅgI have tasted eggs, certainly,Åh said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; Ågbut little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents
do, you know.Åh
ÅgI donÅft believe it,Åh said the Pigeon; Ågbut if they do, why then
theyÅfre a kind of serpent: thatÅfs all I can say.Åh
This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding ÅgYouÅfre looking for eggs, I know that well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?Åh
ÅgIt matters a good deal to me,Åh said Alice hastily; Ågbut IÅfm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and, if I was, I shouldnÅft
want yours: I donÅft like them raw.Åh
ÅgWell, be off, then!Åh said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among
the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had
to stop and untwist it. After a while she remembered that she
still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to
work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other,
and growing sometimes taller, and sometimes shorter, until
she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual
height.
It was so long since she had been anything near the right
size, that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual, ÅgCome,
thereÅfs half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes
are! IÅfm never sure what IÅfm going to be, from one minute to
another! However, IÅfve got back to my right size: the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden?how is that to be
done, I wonder?Åh As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. ÅgWhoever
lives there,Åh thought Alice, ÅgitÅfll never do to come upon
them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!Åh
So she began nibbling at the right-hand bit again, and did not
33
venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down
to nine inches high.
34
Chapter 6
Pig and Pepper
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering
what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery
came running out of the wood?(she considered him to be a
footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his
face only, she would have called him a fish)?and rapped loudly
at the door with his knuckles. It was opened by another footman
in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and
both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all
over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all
about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.
The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a
great letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over
to the other, saying, in a solemn tone, ÅgFor the Duchess. An invitation
from the Queen to play croquet.Åh The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of
the words a little, ÅgFrom the Queen. An invitation for the
Duchess to play croquet.Åh
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.
Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and, when she next
peeped out, the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting
on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the
sky.
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
ÅgThereÅfs no sort of use in knocking,Åh said the Footman, Ågand
that for two reasons. First, because IÅfm on the same side of the
door as you are: secondly, because theyÅfre making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.Åh And certainly there
was a most extraordinary noise going on within?a constant
35
howling and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash,
as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.
ÅgPlease, then,Åh said Alice, Åghow am I to get in?Åh
ÅgThere might be some sense in your knocking,Åh the Footman
went on, without attending to her, Ågif we had the door between
us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I
could let you out, you know.Åh He was looking up into the sky all
the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.
ÅgBut perhaps he caÅfnÅft help it,Åh she said to herself; Åghis
eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate
he might answer questions.?How am I to get in?Åh she repeated,
aloud.
ÅgI shall sit here,Åh the Footman remarked, Ågtill to-morrow??Åh
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large
plate came skimming out, straight at the FootmanÅfs head: it
just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the
trees behind him.
Åg??or next day, maybe,Åh the Footman continued in the same
tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.
ÅgHow am I to get in?Åh asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
ÅgAre you to get in at all?Åh said the Footman. ÅgThatÅfs the first
question, you know.Åh
It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. ÅgItÅfs
really dreadful,Åh she muttered to herself, Ågthe way all the
creatures argue. ItÅfs enough to drive one crazy!Åh
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating
his remark, with variations. ÅgI shall sit here,Åh he said,
Ågon and off, for days and days.Åh
ÅgBut what am I to do?Åh said Alice.
ÅgAnything you like,Åh said the Footman, and began whistling.
ÅgOh, thereÅfs no use in talking to him,Åh said Alice desperately:
ÅgheÅfs perfectly idiotic!Åh And she opened the door and went in.
The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby: the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.
ÅgThereÅfs certainly too much pepper in that soup!Åh Alice said
to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
36
There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a momentÅfs pause.
The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the
cook, and a large cat, which was lying on the hearth and grinning
from ear to ear.
ÅgPlease would you tell me,Åh said Alice, a little timidly, for she
was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, Ågwhy your cat grins like that?Åh
ÅgItÅfs a Cheshire-Cat,Åh said the Duchess, Ågand thatÅfs why.
Pig!Åh
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and
went on again:?
ÅgI didnÅft know that Cheshire-Cats always grinned; in fact, I
didnÅft know that cats could grin.Åh
ÅgThey all can,Åh said the Duchess; Ågand most of Åfem do.Åh
ÅgI donÅft know of any that do,Åh Alice said very politely, feeling
quite pleased to have got into a conversation.
ÅgYou donÅft know much,Åh said the Duchess; Ågand thatÅfs a
fact.Åh
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it
would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation.
While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took the
cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing
everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby?the
fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of them even
when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or
not.
ÅgOh, please mind what youÅfre doing!Åh cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror. ÅgOh, there goes his precious
nose!Åh, as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and
very nearly carried it off.
ÅgIf everybody minded their own business,Åh the Duchess said,
in a hoarse growl, Ågthe world would go round a deal faster than
it does.Åh
37
ÅgWhich would not be an advantage,Åh said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge.
ÅgJust think of what work it would make with the day and
night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round
on its axis??Åh
ÅgTalking of axes,Åh said the Duchess, Ågchop off her head!Åh
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she
meant to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the
soup, and seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:
ÅgTwenty-four hours, I think; or is it twelve? I??Åh
ÅgOh, donÅft bother me!Åh said the Duchess. ÅgI never could
abide figures!Åh And with that she began nursing her child
again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it
a violent shake at the end of every line:?
? ÅgSpeak roughly to your little boy,
? And beat him when he sneezes:
? He only does it to annoy,
? Because he knows it teases.Åh
CHORUS
(in which the cook and the baby joined):?
? ÅgWow! Wow! Wow!Åh
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she
kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little
thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:?
?
? ÅgI speak severely to my boy,
? I beat him when he sneezes;
? For he can thoroughly enjoy
? The pepper when he pleases!Åh
CHORUS
? ÅgWow! wow! wow!Åh
ÅgHere! You may nurse it a bit, if you like!Åh the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke. ÅgI must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,Åh and she hurried out
of the room. The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went,
but it just missed her.
Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queershaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions,
Ågjust like a star-fish,Åh thought Alice. The poor little
thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and
38
kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so
that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as
she could do to hold it.
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing
itself), she carried it out into the open air. ÅgIf I donÅft take
this child away with me,Åh thought Alice, ÅgtheyÅfre sure to kill it
in a day or two. WouldnÅft it be murder to leave it behind?Åh She
said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in
reply (it had left off sneezing by this time). ÅgDonÅft grunt,Åh said
Alice; ÅgthatÅfs not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.Åh
The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it. There could be no
doubt that it had a very turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose: also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby: altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all.
ÅgBut perhaps it was only sobbing,Åh she thought, and looked into
its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.
No, there were no tears. ÅgIf youÅfre going to turn into a pig,
my dear,Åh said Alice, seriously, ÅgIÅfll have nothing more to do
with you. Mind now!Åh The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.
Alice was just beginning to think to herself, ÅgNow, what am I
to do with this creature, when I get it home?Åh when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm. This time there could be no mistake about it: it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it any further.
So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood. ÅgIf it had grown up,Åh she
said to herself, Ågit would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but
it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.Åh And she began thinking
over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself Ågif one only knew the right
way to change them??Åh when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire-Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards
off.
39
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked goodnatured,
she thought: still it had very long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.
ÅgCheshire Puss,Åh she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name: however, it only
grinned a little wider. ÅgCome, itÅfs pleased so far,Åh thought
Alice, and she went on. ÅgWould you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?Åh
ÅgThat depends a good deal on where you want to get to,Åh said
the Cat.
ÅgI donÅft much care where??Åh said Alice.
ÅgThen it doesnÅft matter which way you go,Åh said the Cat.
Åg??so long as I get somewhere,Åh Alice added as an
explanation.
ÅgOh, youÅfre sure to do that,Åh said the Cat, Ågif you only walk
long enough.Åh
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question. ÅgWhat sort of people live about here?Åh
ÅgIn that direction,Åh the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
Åglives a Hatter: and in that direction,Åh waving the other paw,
Åglives a March Hare. Visit either you like: theyÅfre both mad.Åh
ÅgBut I donÅft want to go among mad people,Åh Alice remarked.
ÅgOh, you caÅfnÅft help that,Åh said the Cat: ÅgweÅfre all mad here.
IÅfm mad. YouÅfre mad.Åh
ÅgHow do you know IÅfm mad?Åh said Alice.
ÅgYou must be,Åh said the Cat, Ågor you wouldnÅft have come
here.Åh
Alice didnÅft think that proved it at all: however, she went on:
ÅgAnd how do you know that youÅfre mad?Åh
ÅgTo begin with,Åh said the Cat, Åga dogÅfs not mad. You grant
that?Åh
ÅgI suppose so,Åh said Alice.
ÅgWell, then,Åh the Cat went on, Ågyou see, a dog growls when
itÅfs angry, and wags its tail when itÅfs pleased. Now I growl
when IÅfm pleased, and wag my tail when IÅfm angry. Therefore
IÅfm mad.Åh
ÅgI call it purring, not growling,Åh said Alice.
ÅgCall it what you like,Åh said the Cat. ÅgDo you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?Åh
40
ÅgI should like it very much,Åh said Alice, Ågbut I havenÅft been
invited yet.Åh
ÅgYouÅfll see me there,Åh said the Cat, and vanished.
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening. While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.
ÅgBy-the-bye, what became of the baby?Åh said the Cat. ÅgIÅfd
nearly forgotten to ask.Åh
ÅgIt turned into a pig,Åh Alice quietly said, just as if the Cat had
come back in a natural way.
ÅgI thought it would,Åh said the Cat, and vanished again.
Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did
not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction
in which the March Hare was said to live. ÅgIÅfve seen hatters
before,Åh she said to herself: Ågthe March Hare will be much
the most interesting, and perhaps, as this is May, it woÅfnÅft be
raving mad?at least not so mad as it was in March.Åh As she
said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on
a branch of a tree.
ÅgDid you say ÅepigÅf, or ÅefigÅf?Åh said the Cat.
ÅgI said ÅepigÅf,Åh replied Alice; Ågand I wish you wouldnÅft keep appearing
and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.Åh
ÅgAll right,Åh said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.
ÅgWell! IÅfve often seen a cat without a grin,Åh thought Alice;
Ågbut a grin without a cat! ItÅfs the most curious thing I ever saw
in all my life!Åh
She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of
the house of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right
house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the
roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that she
did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the
left-hand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet
high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying
to herself ÅgSuppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost
wish IÅfd gone to see the Hatter instead!Åh
41
Chapter 7
A Mad Tea-Party
There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other
two were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and
talking over its head. ÅgVery uncomfortable for the Dormouse,Åh
thought Alice; Ågonly as itÅfs asleep, I suppose it doesnÅft mind.Åh
The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together
at one corner of it. ÅgNo room! No room!Åh they cried out
when they saw Alice coming. ÅgThereÅfs plenty of room!Åh said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.
ÅgHave some wine,Åh the March Hare said in an encouraging
tone.
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea. ÅgI donÅft see any wine,Åh she remarked.
ÅgThere isnÅft any,Åh said the March Hare.
ÅgThen it wasnÅft very civil of you to offer it,Åh said Alice
angrily.
ÅgIt wasnÅft very civil of you to sit down without being invited,Åh
said the March Hare.
ÅgI didnÅft know it was your table,Åh said Alice: ÅgitÅfs laid for a
great many more than three.Åh
ÅgYour hair wants cutting,Åh said the Hatter. He had been looking
at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his
first speech.
ÅgYou should learn not to make personal remarks,Åh Alice said
with some severity: ÅgitÅfs very rude.Åh
The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he said was ÅgWhy is a raven like a writing-desk?Åh
42
ÅgCome, we shall have some fun now!Åh thought Alice. ÅgIÅfm
glad theyÅfve begun asking riddles?I believe I can guess that,Åh
she added aloud.
ÅgDo you mean that you think you can find out the answer to
it?Åh said the March Hare.
ÅgExactly so,Åh said Alice.
ÅgThen you should say what you mean,Åh the March Hare went
on.
ÅgI do,Åh Alice hastily replied; Ågat least?at least I mean what I
say?thatÅfs the same thing, you know.Åh
ÅgNot the same thing a bit!Åh said the Hatter. ÅgYou might just
as well say that ÅeI see what I eatÅf is the same thing as ÅeI eat
what I seeÅf!Åh
ÅgYou might just as well say,Åh added the March Hare, Ågthat ÅeI
like what I getÅf is the same thing as ÅeI get what I likeÅf!Åh
ÅgYou might just as well say,Åh added the Dormouse, who
seemed to be talking in its sleep, Ågthat ÅeI breathe when I sleepÅf
is the same thing as ÅeI sleep when I breatheÅf!Åh
ÅgIt is the same thing with you,Åh said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens
and writing-desks, which wasnÅft much.
The Hatter was the first to break the silence. ÅgWhat day of
the month is it?Åh he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.
Alice considered a little, and then said ÅgThe fourth.Åh
ÅgTwo days wrong!Åh sighed the Hatter. ÅgI told you butter
wouldnÅft suit the works!Åh he added looking angrily at the
March Hare.
ÅgIt was the best butter,Åh the March Hare meekly replied.
ÅgYes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,Åh the Hatter
grumbled: Ågyou shouldnÅft have put it in with the bread-knife.Åh
The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:
then he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but
he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, ÅgIt
was the best butter, you know.Åh
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
ÅgWhat a funny watch!Åh she remarked. ÅgIt tells the day of the
month, and doesnÅft tell what oÅfclock it is!Åh
43
ÅgWhy should it?Åh muttered the Hatter. ÅgDoes your watch tell
you what year it is?Åh
ÅgOf course not,Åh Alice replied very readily: Ågbut thatÅfs because
it stays the same year for such a long time together.Åh
ÅgWhich is just the case with mine,Åh said the Hatter.
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The HatterÅfs remark seemed to
her to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly
English. ÅgI donÅft quite understand you,Åh she said, as politely as
she could.
ÅgThe Dormouse is asleep again,Åh said the Hatter, and he
poured a little hot tea upon its nose.
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, ÅgOf course, of course: just what I was going to
remark myself.Åh
ÅgHave you guessed the riddle yet?Åh the Hatter said, turning
to Alice again.
ÅgNo, I give it up,Åh Alice replied: ÅgwhatÅfs the answer?Åh
ÅgI havenÅft the slightest idea,Åh said the Hatter.
ÅgNor I,Åh said the March Hare.
Alice sighed wearily. ÅgI think you might do something better
with the time,Åh she said, Ågthan waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.Åh
ÅgIf you knew Time as well as I do,Åh said the Hatter, Ågyou
wouldnÅft talk about wasting it. ItÅfs him.Åh
ÅgI donÅft know what you mean,Åh said Alice.
ÅgOf course you donÅft!Åh the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
ÅgI dare say you never even spoke to Time!Åh
ÅgPerhaps not,Åh Alice cautiously replied; Ågbut I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.Åh
ÅgAh! that accounts for it,Åh said the Hatter. ÅgHe woÅfnÅft stand
beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, heÅfd do
almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose
it were nine oÅfclock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
youÅfd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!Åh
(ÅgI only wish it was,Åh the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)
ÅgThat would be grand, certainly,Åh said Alice thoughtfully:
Ågbut then?I shouldnÅft be hungry for it, you know.Åh
44
ÅgNot at first, perhaps,Åh said the Hatter: Ågbut you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.Åh
ÅgIs that the way you manage?Åh Alice asked.
The Hatter shook his head mournfully. ÅgNot I!Åh he replied.
ÅgWe quarreled last March??just before he went mad, you
know??Åh (pointing with his teaspoon at the March Hare,)
Åg??it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts,
and I had to sing
ÅeTwinkle, twinkle, little bat!
How I wonder what youÅfre at!Åf
You know the song, perhaps?Åh
ÅgIÅfve heard something like it,Åh said Alice.
ÅgIt goes on, you know,Åh the Hatter continued, Ågin this way:?
"Up above the world you fly,
Like a tea-tray in the sky.
Twinkle, twinkle??ÅfÅh
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its
sleep ÅgTwinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle??Åh and went on so
long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.
ÅgWell, IÅfd hardly finished the first verse,Åh said the Hatter,
Ågwhen the Queen jumped up and bawled out, ÅeHeÅfs murdering
the time! Off with his head!ÅfÅh
ÅgHow dreadfully savage!Åh exclaimed Alice.
ÅgAnd ever since that,Åh the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
Åghe woÅfnÅft do a thing I ask! It's always six oÅfclock now.Åh
A bright idea came into AliceÅfs head. ÅgIs that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?Åh she asked.
ÅgYes, thatÅfs it,Åh said the Hatter with a sigh: ÅgitÅfs always teatime,
and weÅfve no time to wash the things between whiles.Åh
ÅgThen you keep moving round, I suppose?Åh said Alice.
ÅgExactly so,Åh said the Hatter: Ågas the things get used up.Åh
ÅgBut what happens when you come to the beginning again?Åh
Alice ventured to ask.
ÅgSuppose we change the subject,Åh the March Hare interrupted,
yawning. ÅgIÅfm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady
tells us a story.Åh
ÅgIÅfm afraid I donÅft know one,Åh said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.
ÅgThen the Dormouse shall!Åh they both cried. ÅgWake up,
Dormouse!Åh And they pinched it on both sides at once.
45
The Dormouse slowly opened its eyes. ÅgI wasnÅft asleep,Åh it
said in a hoarse, feeble voice, ÅgI heard every word you fellows
were saying.Åh
ÅgTell us a story!Åh said the March Hare.
ÅgYes, please do!Åh pleaded Alice.
ÅgAnd be quick about it,Åh added the Hatter, Ågor youÅfll be
asleep again before itÅfs done.Åh
ÅgOnce upon a time there were three little sisters,Åh the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; Ågand their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well??Åh
ÅgWhat did they live on?Åh said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.
ÅgThey lived on treacle,Åh said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.
ÅgThey couldnÅft have done that, you know,Åh Alice gently remarked.
ÅgTheyÅfd have been ill.Åh
ÅgSo they were,Åh said the Dormouse; Ågvery ill.Åh
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary
way of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much: so she
went on: ÅgBut why did they live at the bottom of a well?Åh
ÅgTake some more tea,Åh the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.
ÅgIÅfve had nothing yet,Åh Alice replied in an offended tone: Ågso I
caÅfnÅft take more.Åh
ÅgYou mean you caÅfnÅft take less,Åh said the Hatter: ÅgitÅfs very
easy to take more than nothing.Åh
ÅgNobody asked your opinion,Åh said Alice.
ÅgWhoÅfs making personal remarks now?Åh the Hatter asked
triumphantly.
Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to
the Dormouse, and repeated her question. ÅgWhy did they live
at the bottom of a well?Åh
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it,
and then said, ÅgIt was a treacle-well.Åh
ÅgThereÅfs no such thing!Åh Alice was beginning very angrily,
but the Hatter and the March Hare went ÅgSh! Sh!Åh and the
Dormouse sulkily remarked, ÅgIf you caÅfnÅft be civil, youÅfd better
finish the story for yourself.Åh
46
ÅgNo, please go on!Åh Alice said very humbly. ÅgI woÅfnÅft interrupt
you again. I dare say there may be one.Åh
ÅgOne, indeed!Åh said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he
consented to go on. ÅgAnd so these three little sisters?they
were learning to draw, you know??Åh
ÅgWhat did they draw?Åh said Alice, quite forgetting her
promise.
ÅgTreacle,Åh said the Dormouse, without considering at all, this
time.
ÅgI want a clean cup,Åh interrupted the Hatter: ÅgletÅfs all move
one place on.Åh
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:
the March Hare moved into the DormouseÅfs place, and Alice
rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter
was the only one who got any advantage from the change;
and Alice was a good deal worse off than before, as the March
Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she
began very cautiously: ÅgBut I donÅft understand. Where did they
draw the treacle from?Åh
ÅgYou can draw water out of a water-well,Åh said the Hatter;
Ågso I should think you could draw treacle out of a treaclewell?
eh, stupid?Åh
ÅgBut they were in the well,Åh Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.
ÅgOf course they wereÅh, said the Dormouse: Ågwell in.Åh
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the
Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
ÅgThey were learning to draw,Åh the Dormouse went on, yawning
and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; Ågand
they drew all manner of things?everything that begins with an
M??Åh
ÅgWhy with an M?Åh said Alice.
ÅgWhy not?Åh said the March Hare.
Alice was silent.
The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke
up again with a little shriek, and went on: Åg??that begins with
an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and
muchness?you know you say things are Åemuch of a
47
muchnessÅf?did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a
muchness!Åh
ÅgReally, now you ask me,Åh said Alice, very much confused, ÅgI
donÅft think??Åh
ÅgThen you shouldnÅft talk,Åh said the Hatter.
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she
got up in great disgust, and walked off: the Dormouse fell
asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice
of her going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping
that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they
were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.
ÅgAt any rate IÅfll never go there again!Åh said Alice, as she
picked her way through the wood. ÅgIt's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!Åh
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it. ÅgThatÅfs very curious!Åh she thought.
ÅgBut everythingÅfs curious to-day. I think I may as well go in at
once.Åh And in she went.
Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table. ÅgNow, IÅfll manage better this time,Åh she said
to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking
the door that led into the garden. Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in
her pocket) till she was about a foot high: then she walked
down the little passage: and then?she found herself at last in
the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the
cool fountains.
48
Chapter 8
The QueenÅfs Croquet Ground
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners
at it, busily painting them red. Alice thought this a very
curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and, just as
she came up to them, she heard one of them say ÅgLook out
now, Five! DonÅft go splashing paint over me like that!Åh
ÅgI couldnÅft help it,Åh said Five, in a sulky tone. ÅgSeven jogged
my elbow.Åh
On which Seven looked up and said ÅgThatÅfs right, Five! Always
lay the blame on others!Åh
ÅgYouÅfd better not talk!Åh said Five. ÅgI heard the Queen say
only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded.Åh
ÅgWhat for?Åh said the one who had spoken first.
ÅgThatÅfs none of your business, Two!Åh said Seven.
ÅgYes, it is his business!Åh said Five. ÅgAnd IÅfll tell him?it was
for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.Åh
Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun ÅgWell, of all
the unjust things??Åh when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice,
as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:
the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.
ÅgWould you tell me, please,Åh said Alice, a little timidly, Ågwhy
you are painting those roses?Åh
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began,
in a low voice, ÅgWhy, the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought
to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our
heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, weÅfre doing our
best, afore she comes, to??Åh At this moment, Five, who had
been anxiously looking across the garden, called out ÅgThe
Queen! The Queen!Åh, and the three gardeners instantly threw
49
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many
footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.
First came ten soldiers carrying clubs: these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners: next the ten courtiers: these were ornamented
all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did. After these came the royal children: there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along,
hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with
hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and
among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking
in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was
said, and went by without noticing her. Then followed the
Knave of Hearts, carrying the KingÅfs crown on a crimson velvet
cushion; and, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING
AND THE QUEEN OF HEARTS.
Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down
on her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
ever having heard of such a rule at processions; Ågand besides,
what would be the use of a procession,Åh thought she, Ågif
people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they
couldnÅft see it?Åh So she stood where she was, and waited.
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said, severely, ÅgWho is this?Åh.
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled
in reply.
ÅgIdiot!Åh said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on: ÅgWhatÅfs your name, child?Åh
ÅgMy name is Alice, so please your Majesty,Åh said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, ÅgWhy, theyÅfre only a pack of
cards, after all. I neednÅft be afraid of them!Åh
ÅgAnd who are these?Åh said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of
her own children.
ÅgHow should I know?Åh said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
ÅgItÅfs no business of mine.Åh
50
The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at
her for a moment like a wild beast, began screaming ÅgOff with
her head! Off with??Åh
ÅgNonsense!Åh said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.
The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said ÅgConsider,
my dear: she is only a child!Åh
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the
Knave ÅgTurn them over!Åh
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
ÅgGet up!Åh said the Queen in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King,
the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.
ÅgLeave off that!Åh screamed the Queen. ÅgYou make me giddy.Åh
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on ÅgWhat have you
been doing here?Åh
ÅgMay it please your Majesty,Åh said Two, in a very humble
tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, Ågwe were trying?Åh
ÅgI see!Åh said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining
the roses. ÅgOff with their heads!Åh and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.
ÅgYou shaÅfnÅft be beheaded!Åh said Alice, and she put them into
a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.
ÅgAre their heads off?Åh shouted the Queen.
ÅgTheir heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!Åh the soldiers
shouted in reply.
ÅgThatÅfs right!Åh shouted the Queen. ÅgCan you play croquet?Åh
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.
ÅgYes!Åh shouted Alice.
ÅgCome on, then!Åh roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession,
wondering very much what would happen next.
ÅgItÅfs?itÅfs a very fine day!Åh said a timid voice at her side. She
was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.
ÅgVery,Åh said Alice. ÅgWhereÅfs the Duchess?Åh
51
ÅgHush! Hush!Åh said the Rabbit in a low hurried tone. He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered ÅgSheÅfs under sentence of execution.Åh
ÅgWhat for?Åh said Alice.
ÅgDid you say ÅeWhat a pity!Åf?Åh the Rabbit asked.
ÅgNo, I didnÅft,Åh said Alice. ÅgI donÅft think itÅfs at all a pity. I said
ÅeWhat for?ÅfÅh
ÅgShe boxed the QueenÅfs ears?Åh the Rabbit began. Alice gave
a little scream of laughter. ÅgOh, hush!Åh the Rabbit whispered in
a frightened tone. ÅgThe Queen will hear you! You see she came
rather late, and the Queen said?Åh
ÅgGet to your places!Åh shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling
up against each other: however, they got settled down in a
minute or two, and the game began.
Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquetground
in her life: it was all ridges and furrows: the croquet
balls were live hedgehogs, and the mallets live flamingoes, and
the soldiers had to double themselves up and stand on their
hands and feet, to make the arches.
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo: she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably
enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head,
it would twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing;
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin
again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had
unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all
this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever
she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up
soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts
of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a
very difficult game indeed.
The players all played at once, without waiting for turns,
quarreling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
52
stamping about, and shouting ÅgOff with his head!Åh or ÅgOff with
her head!Åh about once in a minute.
Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, Ågand then,Åh thought she, Ågwhat would become
of me? TheyÅfre dreadfully fond of beheading people here:
the great wonder is, that thereÅfs any one left alive!Åh
She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she
noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very
much at first, but after watching it a minute or two she made it
out to be a grin, and she said to herself ÅgItÅfs the Cheshire-Cat:
now I shall have somebody to talk to.Åh
ÅgHow are you getting on?Åh said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.
Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. ÅgItÅfs no
use speaking to it,Åh she thought, Ågtill its ears have come, or at
least one of them.Åh In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an
account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to
listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of
it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.
ÅgI donÅft think they play at all fairly,Åh Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone, Ågand they all quarrel so dreadfully one caÅfnÅft
hear oneself speak?and they donÅft seem to have any rules in
particular: at least, if there are, nobody attends to them?and
youÅfve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive: for
instance, thereÅfs the arch IÅfve got to go through next walking
about at the other end of the ground?and I should have croqueted
the QueenÅfs hedgehog just now, only it ran away when
it saw mine coming!Åh
ÅgHow do you like the Queen?Åh said the Cat in a low voice.
ÅgNot at all,Åh said Alice: ÅgsheÅfs so extremely?Åh Just then she
noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she
went on Åg?likely to win, that itÅfs hardly worth while finishing
the game.Åh
The Queen smiled and passed on.
ÅgWho are you talking to?Åh said the King, going up to Alice,
and looking at the CatÅfs head with great curiosity.
53
ÅgItÅfs a friend of mine?a Cheshire-Cat,Åh said Alice: Ågallow me
to introduce it.Åh
ÅgI donÅft like the look of it at all,Åh said the King: Åghowever, it
may kiss my hand, if it likes.Åh
ÅgIÅfd rather not,Åh the Cat remarked.
ÅgDonÅft be impertinent,Åh said the King, Ågand donÅft look at me
like that!Åh He got behind Alice as he spoke.
ÅgA cat may look at a king,Åh said Alice. ÅgIÅfve read that in some
book, but I donÅft remember where.Åh
ÅgWell, it must be removed,Åh said the King very decidedly; and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, ÅgMy
dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!Åh
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small. ÅgOff with his head!Åh she said without even looking
round.
ÅgIÅfll fetch the executioner myself,Åh said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.
Alice thought she might as well go back and see how the
game was going on, as she heard the QueenÅfs voice in the distance,
screaming with passion. She had already heard her sentence
three of the players to be executed for having missed
their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the
game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it
was her turn or not. So she went off in search of her hedgehog.
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting
one of them with the other: the only difficulty was that
her flamingo was gone across the other side of the garden,
where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly
up into a tree.
By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
Ågbut it doesnÅft matter much,Åh thought Alice, Ågas all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.Åh So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back
for a little more conversation with her friend.
When she got back to the Cheshire-Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen,
54
who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.
The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three
to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to
her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard to
make out exactly what they said.
The executionerÅfs argument was, that you couldnÅft cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasnÅft going to begin
at his time of life.
The KingÅfs argument was that anything that had a head
could be beheaded, and that you werenÅft to talk nonsense.
The QueenÅfs argument was that, if something wasnÅft done
about it in less than no time, sheÅfd have everybody executed,
all round. (It was this last remark that had made the whole
party look so grave and anxious.)
Alice could think of nothing else to say but ÅgIt belongs to the
Duchess: youÅfd better ask her about it.Åh
ÅgSheÅfs in prison,Åh the Queen said to the executioner: Ågfetch
her here.Åh And the executioner went off like an arrow.
The CatÅfs head began fading away the moment he was gone,
and, by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely
disappeared: so the King and the executioner ran wildly
up and down, looking for it, while the rest of the party went
back to the game.
55
Chapter 9
The Mock TurtleÅfs Story
ÅgYou caÅfnÅft think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!Åh said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into AliceÅfs, and they walked off together.
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper,
and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that
had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.
ÅgWhen IÅfm a Duchess,Åh she said to herself (not in a very
hopeful tone, though), ÅgI woÅfnÅft have any pepper in my kitchen
at all. Soup does very well without?Maybe itÅfs always pepper
that makes people hot-tempered,Åh she went on, very much
pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, Ågand vinegar
that makes them sour?and camomile that makes them bitter?
and?and barley-sugar and such things that make children
sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they
wouldnÅft be so stingy about it, you know??Åh
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
ÅgYouÅfre thinking about something, my dear, and that makes
you forget to talk. I caÅfnÅft tell you just now what the moral of
that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.Åh
ÅgPerhaps it hasnÅft one,Åh Alice ventured to remark.
ÅgTut, tut, child!Åh said the Duchess. ÅgEverythingÅfs got a moral,
if only you can find it.Åh And she squeezed herself up closer to
AliceÅfs side as she spoke.
Alice did not much like her keeping so close to her: first, because
the Duchess was very ugly; and secondly, because she
was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon AliceÅfs
shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. However,
she did not like to be rude: so she bore it as well as she could.
56
ÅgThe gameÅfs going on rather better now,Åh she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.
ÅgÅfTis so,Åh said the Duchess: Ågand the moral of that is?ÅeOh,
Åftis love, Åftis love, that makes the world go round!ÅfÅh
ÅgSomebody said,Åh Alice whispered, Ågthat itÅfs done by everybody
minding their own business!Åh
ÅgAh, well! It means much the same thing,Åh said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into AliceÅfs shoulder as she added
Ågand the moral of that is?ÅeTake care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves.ÅfÅh
ÅgHow fond she is of finding morals in things!Åh Alice thought
to herself.
ÅgI dare say youÅfre wondering why I donÅft put my arm round
your waist,Åh the Duchess said, after a pause: Ågthe reason is,
that IÅfm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try
the experiment?Åh
ÅgHe might bite,Åh Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.
ÅgVery true,Åh said the Duchess: Ågflamingoes and mustard both
bite. And the moral of that is?ÅeBirds of a feather flock
together.ÅfÅh
ÅgOnly mustard isnÅft a bird,Åh Alice remarked.
ÅgRight, as usual,Åh said the Duchess: Ågwhat a clear way you
have of putting things!Åh
ÅgItÅfs a mineral, I think,Åh said Alice.
ÅgOf course it is,Åh said the Duchess, who seemed ready to
agree to everything that Alice said; ÅgthereÅfs a large mustardmine
near here. And the moral of that is?ÅeThe more there is of
mine, the less there is of yours.ÅfÅh
ÅgOh, I know!Åh exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark. ÅgItÅfs a vegetable. It doesnÅft look like one, but it is.Åh
ÅgI quite agree with you,Åh said the Duchess; Ågand the moral of
that is?ÅeBe what you would seem to beÅf?or, if youÅfd like it put
more simply?ÅeNever imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might
have been was not otherwise than what you had been would
have appeared to them to be otherwise.ÅfÅh
ÅgI think I should understand that better,Åh Alice said very politely,
Ågif I had it written down: but I caÅfnÅft quite follow it as
you say it.Åh
57
ÅgThatÅfs nothing to what I could say if I chose,Åh the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.
ÅgPray donÅft trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,Åh
said Alice.
ÅgOh, donÅft talk about trouble!Åh said the Duchess. ÅgI make you
a present of everything IÅfve said as yet.Åh
ÅgA cheap sort of present!Åh thought Alice. ÅgIÅfm glad they donÅft
give birthday-presents like that!Åh But she did not venture to
say it out loud.
ÅgThinking again?Åh the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.
ÅgIÅfve a right to think,Åh said Alice sharply, for she was beginning
to feel a little worried.
ÅgJust about as much right,Åh said the Duchess, Ågas pigs have
to fly; and the m??Åh
But here, to AliceÅfs great surprise, the DuchessÅfs voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word Ågmoral,Åh and
the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble. Alice
looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her
arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
ÅgA fine day, your Majesty!Åh the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.
ÅgNow, I give you fair warning,Åh shouted the Queen, stamping
on the ground as she spoke; Ågeither you or your head must be
off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!Åh
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
ÅgLetÅfs go on with the game,Åh the Queen said to Alice; and
Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed
her back to the croquet-ground.
The other guests had taken advantage of the QueenÅfs absence,
and were resting in the shade: however, the moment
they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely
remarking that a momentÅfs delay would cost them their lives.
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling
with the other players, and shouting ÅgOff with his head!'
or ÅgOff with her head!Åh Those whom she sentenced were taken
into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being
arches to do this, so that, by the end of half an hour or so,
there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King,
58
the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice,
ÅgHave you seen the Mock Turtle yet?Åh
ÅgNo,Åh said Alice. ÅgI donÅft even know what a Mock Turtle is.Åh
ÅgItÅfs the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,Åh said the
Queen.
ÅgI never saw one, or heard of one,Åh said Alice.
ÅgCome on, then,Åh said the Queen, Ågand he shall tell you his
history,Åh
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, ÅgYou are all pardoned.Åh
ÅgCome, thatÅfs a good thing!Åh she said to herself, for she had
felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had
ordered.
They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun. (If you donÅft know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
ÅgUp, lazy thing!Åh said the Queen, Ågand take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back
and see after some executions I have ordered;Åh and she walked
off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite
like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it
would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen: so she waited.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled. ÅgWhat fun!Åh
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.
ÅgWhat is the fun?Åh said Alice.
ÅgWhy, she,Åh said the Gryphon. ÅgItÅfs all her fancy, that: they
never executes nobody, you know. Come on!Åh
ÅgEverybody says Åecome on!Åf here,Åh thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it: ÅgI never was so ordered about before, in all my
life, never!Åh
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as
they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break. She pitied him deeply. ÅgWhat is his sorrow?Åh she
asked the Gryphon. And the Gryphon answered, very nearly in
the same words as before, ÅgItÅfs all his fancy, that: he hasnÅft got
no sorrow, you know. Come on!Åh
59
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
ÅgThis here young lady,Åh said the Gryphon, Ågshe wants for to
know your history, she do.Åh
ÅgIÅfll tell it her,Åh said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone.
ÅgSit down, both of you, and donÅft speak a word till IÅfve
finished.Åh
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice
thought to herself, ÅgI donÅft see how he can ever finish, if he
doesnÅft begin.Åh But she waited patiently.
ÅgOnce,Åh said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, ÅgI was
a real Turtle.Åh
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken
only by an occasional exclamation of ÅgHjckrrh!Åh from the
Gryphon, and the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.
Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, ÅgThank you, Sir,
for your interesting story,Åh but she could not help thinking
there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.
ÅgWhen we were little,Åh the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, Ågwe went to
school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle?we used to
call him Tortoise??Åh
ÅgWhy did you call him Tortoise, if he wasnÅft one?Åh Alice
asked.
ÅgWe called him Tortoise because he taught us,Åh said the
Mock Turtle angrily. ÅgReally you are very dull!Åh
ÅgYou ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a
simple question,Åh added the Gryphon; and then they both sat
silent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the
earth. At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle ÅgDrive on,
old fellow! DonÅft be all day about it!Åh, and he went on in these
words:?
ÅgYes, we went to school in the sea, though you maynÅft believe
it??Åh
ÅgI never said I didnÅft!Åh interrupted Alice.
ÅgYou did,Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgHold your tongue!Åh added the Gryphon, before Alice could
speak again. The Mock Turtle went on.
ÅgWe had the best of educations?in fact, we went to school
every day??Åh
60
ÅgIÅfve been to a day-school, too,Åh said Alice; Ågyou neednÅft be
so proud as all that.Åh
ÅgWith extras?Åh asked the Mock Turtle, a little anxiously.
ÅgYes,Åh said Alice, Ågwe learned French and music.Åh
ÅgAnd washing?Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgCertainly not!Åh said Alice indignantly.
ÅgAh! then yours wasnÅft a really good school,Åh said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief. ÅgNow, at ours, they had at the
end of the bill, ÅeFrench, music, and washing?extra.ÅfÅh
ÅgYou couldnÅft have wanted it much,Åh said Alice; Ågliving at the
bottom of the sea.Åh
ÅgI couldnÅft afford to learn it,Åh said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh. ÅgI only took the regular course.Åh
ÅgWhat was that?Åh inquired Alice.
ÅgReeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,Åh the Mock
Turtle replied; Ågand then the different branches of Arithmetic?
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.Åh
ÅgI never heard of ÅeUglification,ÅfÅh Alice ventured to say. ÅgWhat
is it?Åh
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. ÅgWhat!
Never heard of uglifying!Åh it exclaimed. ÅgYou know what to
beautify is, I suppose?Åh
ÅgYes,Åh said Alice doubtfully: Ågit
means?to?make?anything?prettier.Åh
ÅgWell, then,Åh the Gryphon went on, Ågif you donÅft know what
to uglify is, you are a simpleton.Åh
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions
about it: so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said ÅgWhat else
had you to learn?Åh
ÅgWell, there was Mystery,Åh the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers,?ÅgMystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography: then Drawling?the Drawling-master
was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: he
taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.Åh
ÅgWhat was that like?Åh said Alice.
ÅgWell, I caÅfnÅft show it you myself,Åh the Mock Turtle said: ÅgIÅfm
too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.Åh
ÅgHadnÅft time,Åh said the Gryphon: ÅgI went to the Classical
master, though. He was an old crab, he was.Åh
61
ÅgI never went to him,Åh the Mock Turtle said with a sigh. ÅgHe
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.Åh
ÅgSo he did, so he did,Åh said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.
ÅgAnd how many hours a day did you do lessons?Åh said Alice,
in a hurry to change the subject.
ÅgTen hours the first day,Åh said the Mock Turtle: Ågnine the
next, and so on.Åh
ÅgWhat a curious plan!Åh exclaimed Alice.
ÅgThatÅfs the reason theyÅfre called lessons,Åh the Gryphon remarked:
Ågbecause they lessen from day to day.Åh
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark. ÅgThen the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?Åh
ÅgOf course it was,Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgAnd how did you manage on the twelfth?Åh Alice went on
eagerly.
ÅgThatÅfs enough about lessons,Åh the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone. ÅgTell her something about the games now.Åh
62
Chapter 10
The Lobster-Quadrille
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes. He looked at Alice and tried to speak, but,
for a minute or two, sobs choked his voice. ÅgSame as if he had
a bone in his throat,Åh said the Gryphon; and it set to work shaking
him and punching him in the back. At last the Mock Turtle
recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks,
he went on again:?
ÅgYou may not have lived much under the sea?Åh (ÅgI havenÅft,Åh
said Alice)?Ågand perhaps you were never even introduced to a
lobster?Åh (Alice began to say ÅgI once tasted??Åh but checked
herself hastily, and said ÅgNo, neverÅh) Åg??so you can have no
idea what a delightful thing a Lobster-Quadrille is!Åh
ÅgNo, indeed,Åh said Alice. ÅgWhat sort of a dance is it?Åh
ÅgWhy,Åh said the Gryphon, Ågyou first form into a line along the
sea-shore??Åh
ÅgTwo lines!Åh cried the Mock Turtle. ÅgSeals, turtles, salmon,
and so on: then, when youÅfve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the
way??Åh
ÅgThat generally takes some time,Åh interrupted the Gryphon.
Åg?you advance twice??Åh
ÅgEach with a lobster as a partner!Åh cried the Gryphon.
ÅgOf course,Åh the Mock Turtle said: Ågadvance twice, set to
partners??Åh
Åg?change lobsters, and retire in same order,Åh continued the
Gryphon.
ÅgThen, you know,Åh the Mock Turtle went on, Ågyou throw
the??Åh
ÅgThe lobsters!Åh shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the
air.
Åg?as far out to sea as you can??Åh
63
ÅgSwim after them!Åh screamed the Gryphon.
ÅgTurn a somersault in the sea!Åh cried the Mock Turtle, capering
wildly about.
ÅgChange lobsters again!Åh yelled the Gryphon at the top of its
voice.
ÅgBack to land again, and?thatÅfs all the first figure,Åh said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two
creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this
time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at
Alice.
ÅgIt must be a very pretty dance,Åh said Alice timidly.
ÅgWould you like to see a little of it?Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgVery much indeed,Åh said Alice.
ÅgCome, letÅfs try the first figure!Åh said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon. ÅgWe can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall
sing?Åh
ÅgOh, you sing,Åh said the Gryphon. ÅgIÅfve forgotten the words.Åh
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice,
every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too
close, and waving their fore-paws to mark the time, while the
Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:?
ÅgWill you walk a little faster?Åh said a whiting to a snail,
ÅgThereÅfs a porpoise close behind us, and heÅfs treading on my
tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle?will you come and join the
dance?
Will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you, woÅfnÅft you, woÅfnÅft you join the
dance?
ÅgYou can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
sea!Åh
But the snail replied ÅgToo far, too far!Åh, and gave a look
askance?
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
the dance.
64
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the
dance.
ÅgWhat matters it how far we go?Åh his scaly friend replied.
ÅgThere is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France?
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the
dance.
Will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, woÅfnÅft you, will you, woÅfnÅft you, woÅfnÅft you join the
dance?Åh
ÅgThank you, itÅfs a very interesting dance to watch,Åh said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last: Ågand I do so like
that curious song about the whiting!Åh
ÅgOh, as to the whiting,Åh said the Mock Turtle, Ågthey?youÅfve
seen them, of course?Åh
ÅgYes,Åh said Alice, ÅgIÅfve often seen them at dinn??Åh she
checked herself hastily.
ÅgI donÅft know where Dinn may be,Åh said the Mock Turtle;
Ågbut, if youÅfve seen them so often, of course you know what
theyÅfre like?Åh
ÅgI believe so,Åh Alice replied thoughtfully. ÅgThey have their
tails in their mouths?and theyÅfre all over crumbs.Åh
ÅgYouÅfre wrong about the crumbs,Åh said the Mock Turtle:
Ågcrumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they have their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is??Åh here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes. ÅgTell her about the reason and all
that,Åh he said to the Gryphon.
ÅgThe reason is,Åh said the Gryphon, Ågthat they would go with
the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So
they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their
mouths. So they couldnÅft get them out again. ThatÅfs all.Åh
ÅgThank you,Åh said Alice, ÅgitÅfs very interesting. I never knew
so much about a whiting before.Åh
ÅgI can tell you more than that, if you like,Åh said the Gryphon.
ÅgDo you know why itÅfs called a whiting?Åh
ÅgI never thought about it,Åh said Alice. ÅgWhy?Åh
ÅgIt does the boots and shoes,Åh the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.
65
Alice was thoroughly puzzled. ÅgDoes the boots and shoes!Åh
she repeated in a wondering tone.
ÅgWhy, what are your shoes done with?Åh said the Gryphon. ÅgI
mean, what makes them so shiny?Åh
Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer. ÅgTheyÅfre done with blacking, I believe.Åh
ÅgBoots and shoes under the sea,Åh the Gryphon went on in a
deep voice, Ågare done with whiting. Now you know.Åh
ÅgAnd what are they made of?Åh Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.
ÅgSoles and eels, of course,Åh the Gryphon replied rather impatiently:
Ågany shrimp could have told you that.Åh
ÅgIf IÅfd been the whiting,Åh said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, ÅgIÅfd have said to the porpoise, ÅeKeep
back, please! We donÅft want you with us!ÅfÅh
ÅgThey were obliged to have him with them,Åh the Mock Turtle
said. ÅgNo wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.Åh
ÅgWouldnÅft it really?Åh said Alice in a tone of great surprise.
ÅgOf course not,Åh said the Mock Turtle. ÅgWhy, if a fish came to
me, and told me he was going a journey, I should say ÅeWith
what porpoise?ÅfÅh
ÅgDonÅft you mean ÅepurposeÅf?Åh said Alice.
ÅgI mean what I say,Åh the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone. And the Gryphon added ÅgCome, letÅfs hear some of your
adventures.Åh
ÅgI could tell you my adventures?beginning from this morning,Åh
said Alice a little timidly; Ågbut itÅfs no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.Åh
ÅgExplain all that,Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgNo, no! The adventures first,Åh said the Gryphon in an impatient
tone: Ågexplanations take such a dreadful time.Åh
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time
when she first saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous
about it, just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one
on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide;
but she gained courage as she went on. Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating ÅgYou are
old, Father William,Åh to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath,
and said ÅgThatÅfs very curious.Åh
66
ÅgItÅfs all about as curious as it can be,Åh said the Gryphon.
ÅgIt all came different!Åh the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully.
ÅgI should like to hear her try and repeat something now.
Tell her to begin.Åh He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it
had some kind of authority over Alice.
ÅgStand up and repeat ÅeÅfTis the voice of the sluggard,ÅfÅh said
the Gryphon.
ÅgHow the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!Åh thought Alice; ÅgI might as well be at school at once.Åh
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was
so full of the Lobster-Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she
was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:?
ÅgÅfTis the voice of the Lobster: I heard him declare
ÅeYou have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.Åf
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.
[later editions continued as follows:
When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark:
But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.Åh]
ÅgThatÅfs different from what I used to say when I was a child,Åh
said the Gryphon.
ÅgWell, I never heard it before,Åh said the Mock Turtle; Ågbut it
sounds uncommon nonsense.Åh
Alice said nothing: she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural
way again.
ÅgI should like to have it explained,Åh said the Mock Turtle.
ÅgShe caÅfnÅft explain it,Åh said the Gryphon hastily. ÅgGo on with
the next verse.Åh
ÅgBut about his toes?Åh the Mock Turtle persisted. ÅgHow could
he turn them out with his nose, you know?Åh
ÅgItÅfs the first position in dancing.Åh Alice said; but was dreadfully
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.
ÅgGo on with the next verse,Åh the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
Ågit begins ÅeI passed by his garden.ÅfÅh
Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all
come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:?
67
ÅgI passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie:
[later editions continued as follows:
The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
And concluded the banquet by??Åh]
ÅgWhat is the use of repeating all that stuff,Åh the Mock Turtle
interrupted, Ågif you donÅft explain it as you go on? ItÅfs by far the
most confusing thing I ever heard!Åh
ÅgYes, I think youÅfd better leave off,Åh said the Gryphon, and
Alice was only too glad to do so.
ÅgShall we try another figure of the Lobster-Quadrille?Åh the
Gryphon went on. ÅgOr would you like the Mock Turtle to sing
you another song?Åh
ÅgOh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,Åh
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended
tone, ÅgHm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ÅeTurtle
Soup,Åf will you, old fellow?Åh
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice choked
with sobs, to sing this:?
ÅgBeautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Beau?ootiful Soo?oop!
Beau?ootiful Soo?oop!
Soo?oop of the e?e?evening,
Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
ÅgBeautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Beau?ootiful Soo?oop!
Beau?ootiful Soo?oop!
Soo?oop of the e?e?evening,
68
Beautiful, beauti?FUL SOUP!Åh
ÅgChorus again!Åh cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of ÅgThe trialÅfs beginning!Åh
was heard in the distance.
ÅgCome on!Åh cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.
ÅgWhat trial is it?Åh Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered ÅgCome on!Åh and ran the faster, while more and
more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them,
the melancholy words:?
ÅgSoo?oop of the e?e?evening,
Beautiful, beautiful Soup!Åh
69
Chapter 11
Who Stole the Tarts?
The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne
when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about
them?all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole
pack of cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains,
with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King
was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll
of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was
a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good,
that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them?ÅgI wish theyÅfd
get the trial done,Åh she thought, Ågand hand round the refreshments!Åh
But there seemed to be no chance of this; so she
began looking at everything about her to pass away the time.
Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find
that she knew the name of nearly everything there. ÅgThatÅfs the
judge,Åh she said to herself, Ågbecause of his great wig.Åh
The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his
crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see
how he did it), he did not look at all comfortable, and it was
certainly not becoming.
ÅgAnd thatÅfs the jury-box,Åh thought Alice; Ågand those twelve
creatures,Åh (she was obliged to say Ågcreatures,Åh you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) ÅgI
suppose they are the jurors.Åh She said this last word two or
three times over to herself, being rather proud of it: for she
thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age
knew the meaning of it at all. However, ÅgjurymenÅh would have
done just as well.
70
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
ÅgWhat are they doing?Åh Alice whispered to the Gryphon. ÅgThey
caÅfnÅft have anything to put down yet, before the trialÅfs begun.Åh
ÅgTheyÅfre putting down their names,Åh the Gryphon whispered
in reply, Ågfor fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.Åh
ÅgStupid things!Åh Alice began in a loud, indignant voice; but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, ÅgSilence in
the court!Åh, and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.
Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down ÅgStupid
things!Åh on their slates, and she could even make out that one
of them didnÅft know how to spell Ågstupid,Åh and that he had to
ask his neighbour to tell him. ÅgA nice muddle their slatesÅfll be
in before the trialÅfs over!Åh thought Alice.
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This, of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill,
the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so,
after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one
finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as
it left no mark on the slate.
ÅgHerald, read the accusation!Åh said the King.
On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet,
and then unrolled the parchment-scroll, and read as follows:?
ÅgThe Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
And took them quite away!Åh
ÅgConsider your verdict,Åh the King said to the jury.
ÅgNot yet, not yet!Åh the Rabbit hastily interrupted. ÅgThereÅfs a
great deal to come before that!Åh
ÅgCall the first witness,Åh said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, ÅgFirst
witness!Åh
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. ÅgI beg
71
pardon, your Majesty,Åh he began, Ågfor bringing these in; but I
hadnÅft quite finished my tea when I was sent for.Åh
ÅgYou ought to have finished,Åh said the King. ÅgWhen did you
begin?Åh
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him
into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. ÅgFourteenth of
March, I think it was,Åh he said.
ÅgFifteenth,Åh said the March Hare.
ÅgSixteenth,Åh said the Dormouse.
ÅgWrite that down,Åh the King said to the jury; and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added
them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
ÅgTake off your hat,Åh the King said to the Hatter.
ÅgIt isnÅft mine,Åh said the Hatter.
ÅgStolen!Åh the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly
made a memorandum of the fact.
ÅgI keep them to sell,Åh the Hatter added as an explanation.
ÅgIÅfve none of my own. IÅfm a hatter.Åh
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring
hard at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.
ÅgGive your evidence,Åh said the King; Ågand donÅft be nervous,
or IÅfll have you executed on the spot.Åh
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup
instead of the bread-and-butter.
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was: she
was beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first
she would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts
she decided to remain where she was as long as there was
room for her.
ÅgI wish you wouldnÅft squeeze so.Åh said the Dormouse, who
was sitting next to her. ÅgI can hardly breathe.Åh
ÅgI caÅfnÅft help it,Åh said Alice very meekly: ÅgIÅfm growing.Åh
ÅgYouÅfve no right to grow here,Åh said the Dormouse.
ÅgDonÅft talk nonsense,Åh said Alice more boldly: Ågyou know
youÅfre growing too.Åh
72
ÅgYes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,Åh said the Dormouse:
Ågnot in that ridiculous fashion.Åh And he got up very sulkily and
crossed over to the other side of the court.
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter,
and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said, to
one of the officers of the court, ÅgBring me the list of the singers
in the last concert!Åh on which the wretched Hatter trembled
so, that he shook off both his shoes.
ÅgGive your evidence,Åh the King repeated angrily, Ågor IÅfll have
you executed, whether you are nervous or not.Åh
ÅgIÅfm a poor man, your Majesty,Åh the Hatter began, in a trembling
voice, Åg?and I hadnÅft begun my tea?not above a week or
so?and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin?and
the twinkling of the tea??Åh
ÅgThe twinkling of what?Åh said the King.
ÅgIt began with the tea,Åh the Hatter replied.
ÅgOf course twinkling begins with a T!Åh said the King sharply.
ÅgDo you take me for a dunce? Go on!Åh
ÅgIÅfm a poor man,Åh the Hatter went on, Ågand most things
twinkled after that?only the March Hare said??Åh
ÅgI didnÅft!Åh the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.
ÅgYou did!Åh said the Hatter.
ÅgI deny it!Åh said the March Hare.
ÅgHe denies it,Åh said the King: Ågleave out that part.Åh
ÅgWell, at any rate, the Dormouse said??Åh the Hatter went
on, looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too; but
the Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.
ÅgAfter that,Åh continued the Hatter, ÅgI cut some more breadand-
butter??Åh
ÅgBut what did the Dormouse say?Åh one of the jury asked.
ÅgThat I caÅfnÅft remember,Åh said the Hatter.
ÅgYou must remember,Åh remarked the King, Ågor IÅfll have you
executed.Åh
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee. ÅgIÅfm a poor man, your
Majesty,Åh he began.
ÅgYouÅfre a very poor speaker,Åh said the King.
Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court. (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had
73
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into
this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)
ÅgIÅfm glad IÅfve seen that done,Åh thought Alice. ÅgIÅfve so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, ÅeThere was some
attempt at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court,Åf and I never understood what it meant till
now.Åh
ÅgIf thatÅfs all you know about it, you may stand down,Åh continued
the King.
ÅgI canÅft go no lower,Åh said the Hatter: ÅgIÅfm on the floor, as it
is.Åh
ÅgThen you may sit down,Åh the King replied.
Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.
ÅgCome, that finishes the guinea-pigs!Åh thought Alice. ÅgNow
we shall get on better.Åh
ÅgIÅfd rather finish my tea,Åh said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.
ÅgYou may go,Åh said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.
Åg??and just take his head off outside,Åh the Queen added to
one of the officers; but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.
ÅgCall the next witness!Åh said the King.
The next witness was the DuchessÅfs cook. She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door
began sneezing all at once.
ÅgGive your evidence,Åh said the King.
ÅgShaÅfnÅft,Åh said the cook.
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said, in a
low voice, ÅgYour Majesty must cross-examine this witness.Åh
ÅgWell, if I must, I must,Åh the King said with a melancholy air,
and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his
eyes were nearly out of sight, he said, in a deep voice, ÅgWhat
are tarts made of?Åh
ÅgPepper, mostly,Åh said the cook.
ÅgTreacle,Åh said a sleepy voice behind her.
74
ÅgCollar that Dormouse,Åh the Queen shrieked out. ÅgBehead
that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress
him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!Åh
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting
the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled
down again, the cook had disappeared.
ÅgNever mind!Åh said the King, with an air of great relief. ÅgCall
the next witness.Åh And, he added, in an under-tone to the
Queen, ÅgReally, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!Åh
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
Åg?for they havenÅft got much evidence yet,Åh she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the
top of his shrill little voice, the name ÅgAlice!Åh
75
Chapter 12
AliceÅfs Evidence
ÅgHere!Åh cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment
how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box
with the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the
heads of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about,
reminding her very much of a globe of gold-fish she had accidentally
upset the week before.
ÅgOh, I beg your pardon!Åh she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay,
and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the gold-fish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at
once and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.
ÅgThe trial cannot proceed,Åh said the King, in a very grave
voice, Åguntil all the jurymen are back in their proper
places?all,Åh he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at
Alice as he said so.
Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move. She soon got it out again, and put it right; Ågnot
that it signifies much,Åh she said to herself; ÅgI should think it
would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the
other.Åh
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.
76
ÅgWhat do you know about this business?Åh the King said to
Alice.
ÅgNothing,Åh said Alice.
ÅgNothing whatever?Åh persisted the King.
ÅgNothing whatever,Åh said Alice.
ÅgThatÅfs very important,Åh the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates,
when the White Rabbit interrupted: ÅgUnimportant, your
Majesty means, of course,Åh he said, in a very respectful tone,
but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.
ÅgUnimportant, of course, I meant,Åh the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an under-tone,
Ågimportant?unimportant?unimportant?important??Åh as if
he were trying which word sounded best.
Some of the jury wrote it down Ågimportant,Åh and some Ågunimportant.Åh
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look
over their slates; Ågbut it doesnÅft matter a bit,Åh she thought to
herself.
At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, called out ÅgSilence!Åh, and read out
from his book, ÅgRule Forty-two. All persons more than a mile
high to leave the court.Åh
Everybody looked at Alice.
ÅgIÅfm not a mile high,Åh said Alice.
ÅgYou are,Åh said the King.
ÅgNearly two miles high,Åh added the Queen.
ÅgWell, I shaÅfnÅft go, at any rate,Åh said Alice: Ågbesides, thatÅfs
not a regular rule: you invented it just now.Åh
ÅgItÅfs the oldest rule in the book,Åh said the King.
ÅgThen it ought to be Number One,Åh said Alice.
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. ÅgConsider
your verdict,Åh he said to the jury, in a low trembling
voice.
ÅgThereÅfs more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,Åh
said the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry: Ågthis paper
has just been picked up.Åh
ÅgWhatÅfs in it?Åh said the Queen.
ÅgI havenÅft opened it yet,Åh said the White Rabbit; Ågbut it
seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to?to somebody.Åh
77
ÅgIt must have been that,Åh said the King, Ågunless it was written
to nobody, which isnÅft usual, you know.Åh
ÅgWho is it directed to?Åh said one of the jurymen.
ÅgIt isnÅft directed at all,Åh said the White Rabbit: Ågin fact,
thereÅfs nothing written on the outside.Åh He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added ÅgIt isnÅft a letter, after all: itÅfs a set of
verses.Åh
ÅgAre they in the prisonerÅfs handwriting?Åh asked another of
the jurymen.
ÅgNo, theyÅfre not,Åh said the White Rabbit, Ågand thatÅfs the
queerest thing about it.Åh (The jury all looked puzzled.)
ÅgHe must have imitated somebody elseÅfs hand,Åh said the
King. (The jury all brightened up again.)
ÅgPlease your Majesty,Åh said the Knave, ÅgI didnÅft write it, and
they caÅfnÅft prove that I did: thereÅfs no name signed at the end.Åh
ÅgIf you didnÅft sign it,Åh said the King, Ågthat only makes the
matter worse. You must have meant some mischief, or else
youÅfd have signed your name like an honest man.Åh
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first
really clever thing the King had said that day.
ÅgThat proves his guilt, of course,Åh said the Queen: Ågso, off
with??.Åh
ÅgIt doesnÅft prove anything of the sort!Åh said Alice. ÅgWhy, you
donÅft even know what theyÅfre about!Åh
ÅgRead them,Åh said the King.
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. ÅgWhere shall I begin,
please your Majesty?Åh he asked.
ÅgBegin at the beginning,Åh the King said, very gravely, Ågand
go on till you come to the end: then stop.Åh
There was dead silence in the court, whilst the White Rabbit
read out these verses:?
ÅgThey told me you had been to her,
And mentioned me to him:
She gave me a good character,
But said I could not swim.
He sent them word I had not gone
(We know it to be true):
If she should push the matter on,
What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two,
78
You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be
Involved in this affair,
He trusts to you to set them free,
Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been
(Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
Him, and ourselves, and it.
DonÅft let him know she liked them best,
For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
Between yourself and me.Åh
ÅgThatÅfs the most important piece of evidence weÅfve heard
yet,Åh said the King, rubbing his hands; Ågso now let the jury??Åh
ÅgIf any one of them can explain it,Åh said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) ÅgIÅfll give him sixpence. I don't believe
thereÅfs an atom of meaning in it.Åh
The jury all wrote down, on their slates, ÅgShe doesnÅft believe
thereÅfs an atom of meaning in it,Åh but none of them attempted
to explain the paper.
ÅgIf thereÅfs no meaning in it,Åh said the King, Ågthat saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we neednÅft try to find any. And
yet I donÅft know,Åh he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; ÅgI seem to see some
meaning in them, after all. Åe?said I could not swim?Åf you
caÅfnÅft swim, can you?Åh he added, turning to the Knave.
The Knave shook his head sadly. ÅgDo I look like it?Åh he said.
(Which he certainly did not, being made entirely of cardboard.)
ÅgAll right, so far,Åh said the King; and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself: ÅgÅeWe know it to be trueÅf?thatÅfs the
jury, of course?ÅeIf she should push the matter onÅf?that must
be the Queen?ÅeWhat would become of you?Åf?What, indeed!?Åe
I gave her one, they gave him twoÅf?why, that must be
what he did with the tarts, you know??Åh
ÅgBut it goes on Åethey all returned from him to you,ÅfÅh said
Alice.
79
ÅgWhy, there they are!Åh said the King triumphantly, pointing
to the tarts on the table. ÅgNothing can be clearer than that.
Then again?Åebefore she had this fitÅf?you never had fits, my
dear, I think?Åh he said to the Queen.
ÅgNever!Åh said the Queen, furiously, throwing an inkstand at
the Lizard as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)
ÅgThen the words donÅft fit you,Åh said the King, looking round
the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.
ÅgItÅfs a pun!Åh the King added in an angry tone, and everybody
laughed. ÅgLet the jury consider their verdict,Åh the King said, for
about the twentieth time that day.
ÅgNo, no!Åh said the Queen. ÅgSentence first?verdict
afterwards.Åh
ÅgStuff and nonsense!Åh said Alice loudly. ÅgThe idea of having
the sentence first!Åh
ÅgHold your tongue!Åh said the Queen, turning purple.
ÅgI woÅfnÅft!Åh said Alice.
ÅgOff with her head!Åh the Queen shouted at the top of her
voice. Nobody moved.
ÅgWho cares for you?Åh said Alice (she had grown to her full
size by this time). ÅgYouÅfre nothing but a pack of cards!Åh
At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her; she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from
the trees upon her face.
ÅgWake up, Alice dear!Åh said her sister; ÅgWhy, what a long
sleep youÅfve had!Åh
ÅgOh, IÅfve had such a curious dream!Åh said Alice. And she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these
strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading
about; and, when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and
said, ÅgIt was a curious dream, dear, certainly; but now run in to
your tea: itÅfs getting late.Åh So Alice got up and ran off, thinking
while she ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it
had been.
80
But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head
on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little
Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:?
First, she dreamed about little Alice herself: once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager
eyes were looking up into hers?she could hear the very tones
of her voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep
back the wandering hair that would always get into her
eyes?and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole
place around her became alive the strange creatures of her
little sisterÅfs dream.
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by?the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool?she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending
meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution?once more the pig-baby was sneezing
on the DuchessÅfs knee, while plates and dishes crashed
around it?once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking
of the LizardÅfs slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed
guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the distant sob of the
miserable Mock Turtle.
So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again,
and all would change to dull reality?the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds?the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheepbells,
and the QueenÅfs shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy?and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon,
and all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard?while the lowing of
the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock
TurtleÅfs heavy sobs.
Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and
how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple
and loving heart of her childhood; and how she would gather
about her other little children, and make their eyes bright and
eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream
81
of Wonderland of long ago; and how she would feel with all
their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple
joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer
days.
82
www.feedbooks.com
Food for the mind
83